The perception of the book, I think, is very important, too.
You certainly don't want people to consider this kind of a father-dearest kind of a book in any way.
This is not a condemnation, I don't think.
No, no.
In fact, I was very careful in this book.
I was very reserved about my father.
There was a lot that I left out.
I tried to be fair to him in talking about the things that I loved about him, as well as the things that
with torture that I hated.
I tried to give him a somewhat balanced picture of my mother as well.
But the children's book, the reason this is important is that it is so exciting and freeing to write a book that's free of trauma and where I just get to play with the writing and I'm playing with music again.
It's actually based on Schumann's Thirteen Scenes from Childhood.
And so each, what I'm doing is, there's a piano in the book, and there are two sisters, one's adopted, one's not, and the older one's struggling with the adopted one about to take piano lessons and take over her piano.
But what's happening is she's also learning these scenes from childhood, and the piano teacher has instructed her to make up a narrative, to make up a story.
So this is actually like a young adult book, probably.
No, I'm really aiming for the
nine-year-old, eight-nine-year-old.
A picture book?
It'll have pictures.
So you're probably talking about 2,000, 2,500 words, that's all.
Yeah, very short, very short.
I've counted the words in these books to see how many words there are.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's going to be short.
2,000 words an hour is basically it.
It has to be so... But the problem, I mean, the good thing is I have an artist, Lucia Lynn, who's the violinist, who's a part of mine, that I've worked with.
excuse me, is also a talented illustrator.
She's the one who's working on the pictures.
And I'm hoping, I had so much fun making the audio tape from Memory Slips.
I don't know if you've seen it or heard it.
In fact, I'll give you one.
I actually would, yeah.
That I would love to deal with an audio book which has the actual playing of the streamlined scenes from childhood in it.
I can take this?
Take it, sure.
Great.
Thank you.
This would be very helpful.
I'm hoping to do also a CD-ROM.
Have you seen Mercer Mayer's Grandma and Me?
No.
It's a wonderful book all by itself.
It's a picture book.
But on CD-ROM, you open the little windows, and then you go into the knothole of the tree, and the owl begins to speak, and he tells you about himself.
Which is what a CD-ROM does that a book can never do.
What do you say?
That's the kind of thing a computer can do that a book can never do.
That's right.
I'm writing in my new book about books of the future and all this stuff.
Really?
And libraries of the future, and I've done a tremendous amount of work on this.
I would love to, too.
I will very much be anxious to read your new book.
It's going to be great.
Which, interesting, because you're also interested in antiquarian books.
Yeah, and this book is not a book about collectors per se, although there will be collectors in there, because I have to keep my core constituency up here.
Let's finish with the kids in the CD-ROM.
So the CD-ROM would incorporate some music education and some music and also different elements of the story.
I'm really excited about this.
But I've also, before Memory Slips, I started a second novel, which I now want to go back to, which the working title is The Snake and the Cactus.
And it's about a Japanese-American violinist who lives in Tokyo, whose mother is a geisha, and whose father was a GI from World War II, and an army chaplain.
a fallen army chaplain.
And at the age of 35, she learns that her father is not dead.
And her son is now college age.
He's going to the States to go to Harvard or MIT, I haven't decided.
And he's a computer techie.
And she decides to go back to the United States and search for her father.
And so she's searching for this lost father who she most of her life thought was dead.
And yet every year they'd do the Oban ceremony, and for some reason they wouldn't leave out food for the father.
So she knew something was not quite right.
Interesting.
So that's the second novel.
And then you affiliated with the writers' group when, about 92 years ago?
No, I've been with the writers' group since, I joined Sally Brady's first writers' group in 89.
And then that group went on Tuesday night, and I think I joined Elizabeth Berg's group.
which is another one of Sally's groups, in 91?
About the same time I joined the writer's room.
Did they help you?
Very much so.
I think, you know, having a weekly audience to kind of write for was a great thing.
I read my stuff to my wife, so she's my... You read it out loud to me?
Oh, it's wonderful.
She's got a good ear.
That's wonderful.
You're very welcome.
I really do write for rhythms and stuff.
It's a nice way to try them out.
My husband is a very good editor also, and so I do try out things.
And I do it with my column.
We don't have to have the first thing, but when you read your own work... When you read your own work, you reflect it the way you think it should go.
And so you're not necessarily getting what the reader's going to get.
So if you allow someone else to read your work to you,
You may find out where the rhythm of the sentence is and where the real meaning is.
Interesting.
Rhythm is so important to me.
Absolutely.
I'm a Shakespeare fanatic.
Oh, really?
You can never replicate a blank verse or anything like that, but really the flow of words and sentences being displayed and going into it.
Using the same word twice drives me crazy.
I try to never use the same word twice in a poem.
If it's a name, obviously, you can't help it, but even in my book, it's just 250,000 words.
If I used the word quintessential once, I would be mortified if I used it a second time.
Things like that.
Well, rhythm is also important to me as a musician, but one of the things I learned from my writer's group is that you fall into your own rhythms.
too, and that can be a trap.
If your sentence sets it up, but it sets the D. And if you end up getting that rhythm too many times, it sort of mesmerizes the reader and maybe bores them a little bit.
So it's kind of good to shake it up a little bit and give them a different look.
We've got plenty of stuff here.
Okay, great.
I wonder if would you kindly inscribe this for me?
I would love to.
Thank you.
This is how my collection started.